Around the world,
Jehovah’s Witnesses show unfailing love.
In the next hour,
we’ll hear reports that highlight
real-life examples of such love.
We’ll consider how economic hardship,
natural disasters, and political upheaval
give us the opportunity
to show our unfailing love
toward our brothers.
Later in the program,
we’ll see the immense support
that’s given to special preaching campaigns
and to the construction of places of worship.
All these examples will prove
that Jehovah’s organization
lives up to the words of 1 Peter 2:17:
“Have love
for the whole association of brothers.”
Additionally,
many of the reports will highlight
not only brotherly  love
but also neighborly  love.
We do this by going to extraordinary lengths
to preach despite many challenges.
To get us started,
let’s see some examples
of unfailing love in Africa.
Specifically, we’ll be talking
about how our brothers thrive spiritually
despite challenging economic circumstances.
We now have the privilege of getting reports
from Brother Paul Rahajanirina,
who serves
on the Madagascar Branch Committee;
from Brother Baston Nyirenda,
who serves
on the Malawi Branch Committee;
and from Brother Robert Elongo,
who serves
on the Congo (Kinshasa) Branch Committee.
First, Brother Rahajanirina,
how have our brothers in Madagascar
experienced brotherly love?
Thank you, Brother Rahajanirina,
for sharing those beautiful examples
of brotherly love.
Next, let’s travel to Malawi
to speak for a moment
with Brother Nyirenda.
Brother Nyirenda,
how has the organization
shown love to our brothers in Malawi?
Thank you, Brother Nyirenda.
We’re happy to see how Jehovah
not only provides spiritual food
but also makes it easier
for us to consume it.
We now focus on our brothers
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Brother Elongo,
how do economic circumstances
pose a challenge for our brothers there?
Brother Curzan,
the economic challenges are quite noticeable
in connection with conventions
and assemblies.
The majority of our brothers
have to travel on foot,
or with bicycles, motorcycles,
and even trucks
to reach the convention sites.
They simply do not have enough money
to arrange for other means of travel.
Once at the convention site,
the visiting brothers stay
in the homes of local brothers.
In some cases,
the branch has provided tents
so that brothers who may already have
people staying in their house
can also have guests stay in their yard.
But despite these logistical challenges,
close to 800,000 brothers and sisters
attended the regional convention
in our branch territory.
The brothers love conventions very much,
and they always look
forward to the next one.
But hospitality is needed also
when it’s not convention season.
Sometimes political instability
requires our brothers
to relocate to stay safe.
And when that happens,
examples such as this sister’s
show the evidence
of the unfailing love in our brotherhood.
My husband has passed away,
and I take care of three children
and nine grandchildren.
I have a full house.
It’s challenging to provide
even for our basic needs.
A conflict broke out in the Kasai region,
so brothers from that region
came all the way
on foot with no shoes
and only the clothes on their backs.
When I saw how many there were
and in what state,
it broke my heart.
But I prayed to Jehovah,
so Jehovah gave me courage
and boldness to take the brothers in.
I decided to host
three families in my house.
I had no foam mattresses
for those 18 people.
All I could do was spread a piece of cloth
on the cement floor of the house
for them to sleep on.
As the house has only one bedroom
and a living room,
I asked the brothers
to sleep in the bedroom
and the sisters with their children
to sleep in the living room.
My love for Jehovah
and for my fellow Christians
motivated me to take the brothers in.
I received many blessings
because the organization
—Bethel—
sent food:
flour, rice, oil, and clothes.
I was selling charcoal,
packing it in smaller bags
to get some money to feed all of us.
Since Jehovah helped me in many ways
—even with my small business,
and that we all lived together
without any disputes—
it was clear evidence of Jehovah’s support.
Everything that has happened
has touched my heart so deeply.
I want to remain faithful
to Jehovah God’s organization
right up to the end.
I have many friends
among the brothers and sisters
who sought refuge in my house.
These friends help me and tell me,
“Keep your love intact to the end.”
I look forward to seeing the brothers
and sisters who sought refuge here
—who came empty-handed—
in the new world, in Paradise.
They will have a house
and eat to their heart’s desire
without any problems.
When convention season
and political upheaval happen to coincide,
arranging for accommodations
for everyone can be challenging.
This happened in 2017.
The brothers near the convention site
were already housing the brothers
who had been displaced
because of the fighting in their home region.
Still, arrangements were made
to accommodate
those coming for the convention.
For example, some brothers
asked their non-Witness neighbors
to accommodate their guests
—and they did with pleasure.
And the visiting brothers made sure
to share the Kingdom message
with their hosts,
with many positive results.
Very touching experiences, Brother Elongo.
Thank you for your fine report.
Thank you very much.
Next, let’s go to Asia.
We have with us
Brother Yasushi Wakabayashi,
who serves on the Taiwan Branch Committee,
and also Brother Maurice Raj,
who serves on the Myanmar Branch Committee.
As you may know,
Asia has recently been struck
by several natural disasters.
We want to start
by asking Brother Wakabayashi,
What kinds of natural disasters
have the brothers and sisters
experienced in Taiwan?
Well, we have experienced
many typhoons and earthquakes.
For example, an earthquake in 1999
killed some 2,400 people.
Although large earthquakes
have not been very common,
we did have
a magnitude 6.4 earthquake
in 2016.
An apartment building
where a sister lived completely collapsed.
Thankfully, she was not home
when the earthquake hit.
Another earthquake struck last year.
But it was so encouraging
to see how much our brothers and sisters,
in the midst of disaster,
value spiritual food.
My wife and I
are currently working as translators
at the Amis Remote Translation Office
in Hualien.
Amis is an indigenous language
spoken in the eastern part of Taiwan.
The earthquake struck
around midnight of February 6th.
We heard very loud noises
and people screaming outside.
Furniture fell over,
and all my belongings were on the floor.
Brother and Sister Ruan ran into my room
and gave me a pair of shoes to wear.
I was stepping
on broken glass as we fled outside.
All we had were the clothes
on our backs and a bag.
Losing everything
was hard on us emotionally.
However, the most important thing was,
not to focus on what I’d lost,
but how to resume
the supply of spiritual food
—to continue to translate
spiritual food for the Amis people.
We decided to move the translation office
to a Kingdom Hall close by,
where it was safe.
The brothers and sisters
all wanted the translation work to continue,
so everyone cooperated
to get things set up at the office.
One brother even asked me:
“Do you need a car?
“We can lend you one so you can commute
from your home to the office.”
Before we could agree,
he drove the car
to where we were staying
and gave us the keys.
Many brothers and sisters
sent things without asking us.
They sent many clothes,
meeting bags, ties,
shoes for my wife
—almost everything.
We had something
new to wear every day.
This gave me a sense of urgency
to resume our work as soon as possible,
to translate our publications,
and not to set things back.
We were able to resume
our work at the RTO
just about a week after the earthquake.
The congregation arranged
to witness to the victims at the shelter
the same weekend after the earthquake.
Some asked me:
“You are also a victim,
and yet you are comforting others.
Why?”
Because I believed when I comforted others,
it brought me comfort too.
The love and zeal the brothers displayed
in such difficult times
deeply touched our hearts.
The brothers and sisters
are always very quick
to help when a natural disaster strikes.
For example, during the recent typhoon,
a tree fell on a sister’s house.
She later wrote to us
about the events that followed.
She wrote:
“As soon as you found out that my house
“was badly damaged by a tree
—yes, immediately—
“arrangements were made
not only to visit us
“but also to fix and rebuild.
“It has been a great witness
“to all my unbelieving family members,
relatives, and neighbors”
—a great example of unfailing love.
Still, while it is good not to presume
upon the love of our brothers,
sometimes the brothers and sisters
can be reluctant to ask for help.
For example, after a typhoon,
an elder called a sister
to ask if she was doing OK.
She said:
“I’m fine. We can manage.”
But actually her roof had blown away,
which to me would not really
qualify as being OK.
So congregation elders
have encouraged our brothers and sisters
not to be shy but to accept the help
that they are offered by the organization
as a reflection of Jehovah’s love.
That’s such a good point.
After all, we’re living at the end
of this system of things,
with all that it entails,
and Jehovah asks us to trust in him.
Thank you for that report,
Brother Wakabayashi.
You are welcome.
Next, let’s speak with Brother Maurice Raj
of the Myanmar Branch Committee.
Brother Raj, what Scriptural principles
have guided our brothers in Myanmar
to show love during natural disasters?
During one of our circuit visits,
it started to rain heavily.
According to the news on the radio,
many of the roads in the area had collapsed;
and there were reports
of landslides in Hakha,
the next congregation in our circuit.
The distance from where I was
to Hakha was 65 miles.
Despite the dangerous conditions,
my wife and I decided to walk to Hakha.
I received a phone call from the branch.
They requested
for the Disaster Relief Committee
to go and assist
the brothers in need in the disaster areas.
The committee prepared food
and other supplies in a nearby city.
The road was very muddy,
so the trip took a long time.
It took four days to reach Hakha by foot.
When we arrived in Hakha,
we discovered
that some of the brothers
and sisters lost their homes.
So I met with the congregation elders,
and we arranged to make
shepherding visits on these families.
It brought me joy to see that they
were comforted through Jehovah’s Word.
Once we arrived in Hakha,
we arranged to distribute
the food and other provisions
that we had brought with us.
After that, we started a journey together
to help other congregations.
It was a very difficult time
for the brothers.
One brother said:
“Because we were running low on food,
“our family was planning
to eat just one meal per day.
“But now with the relief committee’s help,
we can eat all three meals.”
The brothers were so happy
and were really thankful
to Jehovah and his organization
for their loving support.
The trip was quite rough,
but we felt that Jehovah
supported us in wonderful ways.
In some places, the roads were very bad.
Sometimes we had to cling
to the edge of a cliff.
We had to climb up very steep mountains
and then climb down steep mountains.
We even had to cross streams
with strong currents.
I knew that I couldn’t give up,
so I kept saying to myself:
‘This is for God’s Kingdom.
This is for God’s Kingdom.
Keep walking.’
That helped me
to continue on my journey.
To provide the congregations
with the supplies,
we walked 120 miles over four days.
God used us to show to his people
that he never abandons them
and that he really cares about them.
Knowing this brings such joy to our hearts.
It was such a wonderful privilege
for me to be involved
in this relief work with Jehovah
in behalf of our brothers and sisters.
Well, thank you for sharing
that excellent example
of showing unfailing love for our brothers.
Thank you, Brother Raj.
Next, we visit Europe.
Brother Jasin Ali
serves on the Albania Branch Committee,
and Brother Lars Kassholm,
on the Scandinavia Branch Committee.
First, let’s speak with Brother Ali.
The Albania branch
oversees the work in Kosovo,
where a preaching campaign
was recently arranged.
Brother Ali,
why was there a need
for a preaching campaign in Kosovo?
The publisher-to-population ratio
in Kosovo is the largest in all Europe,
with 1 publisher
to more than 8,700 inhabitants.
This means that quite a number of cities
and villages are seldom preached in,
and many others
have never received a witness.
When this preaching campaign started,
almost one million of Kosovo’s population
had never heard the truth.
While many people
in this territory have a religious outlook
and have heard of the Bible
and about Jesus Christ,
many often connect religion
with some of the atrocities
that were committed
in recent political conflicts in the region.
Numerous families
have been personally affected
by the war of the 1990’s in Kosovo,
and in many cases,
they have lost loved ones in death.
So it truly was an expression of love
by the brothers and sisters
who answered the call for help
with this campaign.
When we heard about the campaign,
we thought about how wonderful it would be
if at least 200 volunteers would come.
We were thrilled but also really nervous
when we found out
that over 600 volunteers were going to come.
As soon as we heard about the campaign
being organized in Kosovo,
we were very excited
and really wanted to take part in it.
Our limited income meant
that we would have to calculate
the cost carefully.
Also, because I lost my sight,
the adjustment
to a new environment preaching in villages
obviously would not be easy for me.
I was offered a scholarship
from a university in Tirana.
But my mind was made up,
and my goal was to take part in this campaign
and to give my best to Jehovah.
Since I serve at Bethel,
I used my vacation days
to come here for the campaign.
This campaign has been
an answer to my prayers.
It was like Jehovah was saying:
‘Keep trying.
‘You have brothers and sisters
who are supporting you.’
I have worked with brothers and sisters
from all over the world on this campaign.
The sacrifices that they
have made to come here
have been a real source
of encouragement to me.
I understood how much appreciation
the volunteers were showing
for the opportunity from Jehovah
to support the campaign.
I was deeply touched.
If I could use all the words
in the world to describe the joy
this campaign gave me,
they wouldn’t be enough.
Now I have seen with my own eyes
my worldwide family,
and I feel in my heart the love and care
that they have for us.
As you heard,
the campaign had a profound effect
on the local publishers.
But it also had an impact in the field.
For example, one day a group
of publishers from different countries
were having lunch in a local restaurant.
They noticed that a group of policemen
that were having lunch in the same restaurant
were often looking over at them.
So two brothers decided to approach them
and start a conversation with them.
One of the officers said
that he had seen the publishers in the city
and knew all of them very well.
Then he added:
“You are doing a very fine work.
“If everyone did the same work as you,
there would be
no more need for a police force!”
This campaign resulted
not only in the formation
of new groups and pregroups in some areas
but also motivated the local publishers.
It’s amazing to see
how initiatives like this campaign
can be an expression
of both brotherly and neighborly love.
Thank you, Brother Ali.
Next, we turn to Brother Lars Kassholm
in Scandinavia.
The Scandinavia branch office oversees,
among other places, the work in Sweden.
How have recent world events
shaped the preaching efforts in Sweden?
In Sweden, meeting refugees in the ministry
has been common for many years,
and we have had
foreign-language congregations for decades.
However, in 2015,
over 160,000 refugees arrived in Sweden.
So over a period of two years,
the Service Department approved
forming 45 new foreign-language groups
and pregroups in Sweden,
so today we have over 90,
plus a number
of foreign-language congregations.
Even in small congregations,
the brothers have worked very hard
to invite refugees to the meetings.
This has often resulted
in Kingdom Halls packed to capacity.
Thousands of refugees
come to Sweden every year.
Some of these are sent
into different refugee camps
around Jönköping.
I came from Burundi
as a refugee because of the war.
I came to Sweden when I was 17.
I came alone.
When you come as a refugee,
you are a stranger.
You miss your family, you miss your friends,
you miss everything.
They need hope, they need the truth,
and Jehovah has given us
the privilege to give this to them.
Many of these camps were in isolated areas.
Sometimes when you visited them,
there could be
three or four different nationalities
in the same room.
Some of the friends
also learned a few different greetings.
Before setting off,
we downloaded videos in up to 30 languages.
Sometimes we connected
interested ones with brothers
who spoke their language through video calls.
When we did not receive
permission to preach at the camp,
we had to find other methods.
We tried to invite people
to a meeting in Swahili,
and more than 50 people came.
We had to borrow several child seats
and ask many of the friends to help.
I feel that Jehovah has helped me
to become more open-minded
—much more patient and empathetic.
There were long days,
and sometimes you were tired in the evening.
But when you looked out
and saw your brothers and sisters
making the same sacrifice,
that motivated you to continue.
When you saw the way
they accepted the truth,
how it formed and transformed them,
it was worth all the effort.
Although many of us from Sweden
are known as somewhat reserved,
when we meet a person
who has lost everything
—everything, even his family and friends—
it really touches our hearts.
Today, our territory reminds us
of Jesus’ words at John 4:35:
“Lift up your eyes and view the fields,
that they are white for harvesting.”
While Sweden is one
of the most secular lands in the world,
with the influx of refugees,
we now have territories
filled with God-fearing people.
These people are very often
very disappointed in their religion,
so we are now happy to help them
by offering them a solid hope for the future
and giving them a meaning in life.
Of course,
it takes an effort to study the Bible
with someone in another language.
But to be used by Jehovah
in this special way
brings us even closer to him.
So we are very grateful to Jehovah
for this opportunity we have now
to help refugees in Sweden.
We appreciate the brothers
and sisters in Sweden
for setting a good example
of neighborly love.
Thank you for that report, Brother Kassholm.
We’ve now come to North America,
and we’ll be talking
with Brother Anthony Griffin,
who serves
on the United States Branch Committee.
And we’ll continue focusing
on neighborly love.
Brother Griffin,
you mentioned to me earlier
that you’ve seen a pattern,
a pattern of what it takes
to show personal interest.
Can you tell us a bit more about that?
Absolutely.
When you talk to brothers and sisters
who have progressive Bible studies
and who have successfully aided
new ones to serve Jehovah,
what you’ll notice
is that patterns begin to emerge.
One of the patterns is that they prepare
before they go out in service.
How does that help?
When you’re prepared, you’re more relaxed,
and thus you’re more friendly
when you present the good news at the door.
Another pattern
is that effective Bible teachers—
They think, they pray, and they act
on the personal needs
and concerns of Bible students,
whether those needs are physical
or emotional or spiritual.
It’s kind of what—
It reminds you of what Paul
said at 1 Corinthians 9:22.
He said that he became
“all things
“to people of all sorts,
so that [he] might
by all possible means save some.”
So this means that inside
every successful Bible teacher
is a heart that is filled
with love for people.
And it’s this love,
this outstretching love,
that has motivated some
to learn a new language.
Some have moved
to a foreign-language congregation
in order to help and assist
more to learn about Jehovah.
As an example of this,
I’d like to introduce you
to Sister Sally Giltinan.
Sister Giltinan did not allow anything
to stop her from showing neighborly love.
Just prior to my baptism,
unfortunately, I became critically ill.
I was eventually told
that I had two hours to live.
The doctors insisted that I have
a blood transfusion,
and I took my stand.
There was no question
that I was willing to die for Jehovah.
But the question to me was,
Was I willing to live for him?
And I became all the more determined
to use my life to serve Jehovah.
So obviously, I lived.
It motivated me
to really be focused on the ministry.
I began regular pioneering when I was 17.
It’s been a privilege
to study with people
who were Baptist and Catholic
and Methodist and Episcopalian
—some were Atheists,
some were rich, some were poor.
There were five parents
that came with their children,
and there were 13 children.
I was in such a supportive congregation,
and there were so many young pioneers
who had the energy
—those couples were so important to me.
When my husband and I got married,
we were in a rural congregation in Virginia.
Eventually, we wound up
in the Spanish territory.
With so many migrant workers,
I just wanted to be able to talk to them.
It was a challenge
because I didn’t speak Spanish!
I never let that stop me,
so I learned enough
to get my foot in the door.
While I didn’t speak Spanish,
I spoke the language of love
—Jehovah’s love—
and that’s what they were relating to.
And I would work so hard
to prepare for Bible studies.
And the goal
was not just to teach doctrinal truth
but to teach them to know Jehovah.
I would take some Bible students
to visit other Bible students
so they could encourage one another.
Eventually, the brothers determined
that they could hold a meeting.
We thought 20 or 25 would come.
Eighty-two people came
to the first Spanish meeting.
It was such a joyful day
to watch them associate with each other.
It was a family,
and it continues to be to this day.
For 35 years, David and I
have driven separately to the meetings.
We generally take
two different cars to pick people up.
I usually have a car
full of people that I’m bringing.
He will often have people he’s picking up.
If I’m going to teach people
to know Jehovah and to love him,
it begins with me.
So if my heart is filled with love
for Jehovah and for people,
hopefully it will show.
Obviously,
you try really hard to teach the truth.
I think that, if anything,
it’s been the language of love.
I wanted so much
for them to feel that love
that Jehovah showed me in the beginning.
So showing personal interest
by applying Bible principles
—it really does work!
And this can be demonstrated
in many different ways.
For example,
in Los Angeles, California,
there was a brother
who was in a coffee shop,
and he noticed a man
who was reading a newspaper.
So he approached the man,
and he simply asked him,
“Is there any good news in there today?”
So that led to a conversation,
and the man brought up
something that concerned him.
He was concerned about his young daughter.
So the brother asked him,
“Can I show you something on the website
that might assist you
in helping your daughter?”
So he showed him
one of the Caleb and Sophia videos.
Then after further discussion,
the man wanted to know
where the Kingdom Hall was.
So the brother took him
right back to the website
and showed him the address
of the local Kingdom Hall.
What was the result of all of this?
That man who was reading
the newspaper at the coffee shop
is now one of our brothers.
And his daughter?
She’s making wonderful progress in the truth.
Well, thank you, Brother Griffin,
for sharing those beautiful experiences
about showing personal interest.
Let’s now talk for a moment
about how our brothers
faithfully care for our places of worship,
which essentially is
an aspect of showing love for Jehovah
and our fellow brothers and sisters.
This takes us to Oceania,
where we have Brother Kegawale Biyama,
who’s joining us
from the Papua New Guinea Branch Committee,
and Brother Abraham Lincoln,
who serves
on the Micronesia Branch Committee.
We turn first to Brother Biyama.
What need for places of worship
currently exists in Papua New Guinea?
Currently, we need to construct
22 new Kingdom Halls
and renovate 26 existing halls.
Because of the increasing interest
shown in the field,
most of our big congregations
in our main towns have had to split.
Attendances at those
congregations’ weekend meetings
are generally double the seating capacity
of their existing Kingdom Halls.
So when a new Kingdom Hall is built,
the brothers and sisters do all they can
to support the LDC brothers who have come
from afar to assist with that building.
To accomplish
the construction work here in PNG,
there are many challenges.
Sometimes there is no road,
so the brothers and sisters
have to carry all the materials
to the site to build a Kingdom Hall.
Sometimes it’s hard to travel
to other areas for work
because we leave behind
our family and our friends.
When we work on a Kingdom Hall,
everyone in the congregation helps us.
They cook for us
and support the work on the site.
In one congregation, they gave
everything they had to support the work.
They wake up early in the morning
and walk down the mountains,
bringing food with them.
It takes them three or four hours.
They come onto the construction site,
and they cook food.
After the construction team eats,
they clean up
and they walk back.
It takes them three to four hours again,
so around 9:00 p.m. or 10:00 p.m.,
they arrive home.
Sometimes it’s hard for them
because they have
their own family to support.
It’s a huge sacrifice that they’ve given
to come and support this work.
At the same time,
we get encouragement at the meetings
and when we are out witnessing.
Some give encouragement
to help us do this work.
Then we go out
on the weekends to swim and play.
In that way,
we meet a lot of brothers and sisters,
and they become as family to us.
When brothers and sisters
give everything to support us in the work,
this encourages me
to give my best to do this work.
Construction is hard work,
and there are many challenges.
But you will receive
many wonderful blessings.
You will learn to trust in Jehovah,
and also you will be happy doing this work.
It’s fascinating to see how
the outpouring of love for Jehovah
can be manifested in not only practical ways,
such as by cooking food for our brothers,
but also how
it can motivate the brothers
assigned to the construction project.
Yes, and the love we see is not limited
to the construction of the building
but extends to the upkeep
of the hall as well.
Many passersby have stood
in front of the Kingdom Hall property
to take pictures
because of its well-kept look.
That really shows how our love
can be a great shout of praise to Jehovah.
Thank you, Brother Biyama,
for that good report.
And while some places
have a huge need for Kingdom Halls,
others require similar effort
because of the remoteness of the location.
Brother Lincoln, the island of Tonoas
is part of your branch territory.
How did the brothers there
show how much they treasure
their places of worship?
The brothers take seriously
their responsibility
to maintain the Kingdom Hall,
as was visible
in a recent renovation project.
With the assistance
of local and international servants,
this small congregation of 31 publishers
was able to complete
the project in only 11 weeks.
Our island of Tonoas is very beautiful.
But many people have no jobs.
Previously, the Kingdom Hall was very small.
Even though we endeavored
to clean inside and out,
there were many things
that were in bad condition
because there was no money
—not enough.
It was no longer suitable
for a sizable group to worship Jehovah there.
We were very happy when we heard
that Jehovah’s organization would help us
with the Kingdom Hall in Tonoas.
We are grateful for the way
Jehovah’s love was clearly manifested
and for the love of our brothers
from distant lands.
There were difficulties
that we experienced when the materials
arrived in Chuuk from Guam.
We received the materials,
using a flatbed truck to take them
to a barge to be transported
from the capital island of Weno to Tonoas.
Upon reaching Tonoas,
it was very difficult to unload
because there is no dock.
We used a motorboat to carry the materials
from the barge to the drop-off point
so that it could reach the job site.
On our island, people do not view
construction as being women’s work.
But with the help of the brothers
who came from distant lands,
they really helped the sisters
to understand how to use the tools.
Many villagers would kind of mock them:
“Look at those Jehovah’s Witnesses
going to work.
That’s not supposed to be women’s work!”
But our sisters ignored it
because of their deep love for Jehovah;
they walked, singing our songs
so that they would not hear
others mocking them.
Today, we are very thankful
to our God, Jehovah,
and to our brothers around the world
because of their love and hard work on behalf
of our new Kingdom Hall.
It really is a beautiful building for Jehovah
and for people in Tonoas to see
what love Jehovah’s people have among them.
As Hebrews 6:10 plainly tells us
about Jehovah’s promise,
‘he will not forget the love and hard work’
his people performed on our behalf.
Though we can see how deep
the Pacific Ocean is that separates us,
because of Jehovah’s love for us,
it feels as if we are
very close together as a family.
It took the action
and efforts of many involved
to complete this renovation project.
Through this action,
the brothers and sisters
showed how much
they value their Kingdom Halls
as places where we can go
and “give thanks to [Jehovah]
in the great congregation,”
as stated at Psalm 35:18.
A lot of love goes
into building each Kingdom Hall,
and you highlighted that well.
Brother Lincoln, thank you very much.
Thank you.
We have one more continent to visit,
and that’s South America.
There we have Brother Douglas Little,
who serves
on the Bolivia Branch Committee,
and we also have Brother Geraldo Meilsmith,
who’s on the Brazil Branch Committee.
The friends in South America
set a great example of reaching out
to the many indigenous peoples,
so we’ll be focusing on that
for the next few minutes.
Brother Little,
what does the branch in Bolivia do
to reach remote populations
with the good news?
Well, Brother Curzan,
Bolivia has dozens of indigenous languages
spread throughout the country.
Some of these languages
have over a million speakers,
and others,
only a few hundred speakers.
So when Acts 1:8 speaks about witnessing
“to the most distant part of the earth,”
we feel that we need to do our part.
One way that we
reach out to these populations
is through campaigns.
Once we have established
that an area or language
has potential for growth,
we look at how we can give
that field more permanent support.
For example,
we encourage pioneers
to take up the challenge
of learning an indigenous language.
And when pioneers from other countries
write expressing
their interest in serving in Bolivia,
we include a recommendation
of an indigenous language group
they could consider serving in.
And to give you an idea of what it’s like,
we would like you to meet
these two sisters who came here to serve.
My parents were in the international
construction work before we were born.
And we didn’t know it as we were growing up,
but they were planning on someday
moving to another country to pioneer.
My name is Jessica.
My name is Mariah.
We’re from the United States.
And we’re serving in Beni, Bolivia.
We had our doubts at first
about moving to another country.
When you’re pioneering in this area,
you’re in the sun a lot.
You’re either walking or riding a motorcycle
or sometimes a bicycle out in service.
Also, you are adapting to a new culture
—a new culture and new ways of eating
that are different than what we’re used to.
But once we got here
and we started going out in service,
we met the brothers and sisters
and we fell in love with Bolivia.
Once, we were preaching by boat,
and we arrived at one indigenous community.
And a man on a motorcycle came,
and he started picking everybody up
and collecting them.
And we were worried at first.
We thought that he didn’t want
them to listen to us,
and so he was taking them all away.
But it turned out in the end
that he was the son
of the chieftain there in that community,
and he was gathering everyone together
so that they could all listen to us.
It’s something that you
would never really get to do back home.
Moving here has helped us
to see Jehovah’s hand
more directly in our life.
We’ve gotten to be part of activities
that maybe we’ve heard about in a Yearbook
or maybe we hear about on the broadcast,
but getting to live those activities
makes us feel very happy
and closer to the organization as well.
We get to see
how Jehovah is moving
the organization in the last days
to reach as many people as possible.
That really drew us a lot closer to Him
because we were forced to trust
more in him than in ourselves.
So put the car in motion,
and Jehovah will bless you.
Jehovah has richly blessed
all these efforts of our brothers and sisters
to reach out to the indigenous populations.
To give you another example,
in 2016,
a caravan of 11 four-wheel-drive vehicles
with 62 brothers and sisters
went to the remote Izozog region,
where the people speak Bolivian Guarani.
They were able to bring with them
the recently translated Teach Us  book.
And as the brothers and sisters
went door to door in each small village,
the villagers would walk by
and tell them not to forget
to visit their houses too.
Some were so excited to receive the brothers
that they didn’t want to risk
not being home when they came by,
so they brought their chair
to their neighbor’s house
where the brothers and sisters
were already visiting
and sat down
to participate in the discussion.
Thank you, Brother Little,
for sharing that with us,
and we wish Jehovah’s continued blessing
on the preaching work in Bolivia.
We’ll now travel to Brazil
to speak with Brother Meilsmith.
As in Bolivia, the branch in Brazil
has made concerted efforts
to cover remote territories.
Can you tell us a bit about that,
Brother Meilsmith?
When we graduated
from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
to our surprise,
we were assigned to the Sateré-Mawé field.
This is an indigenous language
spoken in the Amazon rain forest.
It was a challenge for us
because the assignment
was about 4,000 kilometers (2,485 miles)
away from our home and our friends.
My name is Alex, and this is my wife, Rosane.
We’ve been serving in this language
for about a year and a half.
We wanted to put into practice right away
everything we had learned.
But how could we do that
if we didn’t know the language?
All we heard was blah, blah, blah;
I couldn’t understand anything!
We know a sister who’s a native speaker,
so we asked her for a lot of help.
We wanted to be able to know enough
to at least be able to preach
and understand a little bit of the language.
We noticed that the Sateré people
would come into the city
and then go home on a crowded boat.
So we and some other sisters
decided to go with them.
We were a little nervous,
and we didn’t know
where we were going to spend the night
or even if the people
would allow us to stay in the village.
But they were very loving
and received us well.
Some even offered
for us to stay in their houses.
Since we didn’t know the language very well,
we decided to learn just one presentation
—to teach them Jehovah’s name.
We showed God’s name at every door.
Some of them were really surprised.
They had a Bible;
they had God’s name
right there in their Bible,
but they didn’t know that Jehovah is God.
It was exciting for us to see them
learning Jehovah’s name for the first time.
Who would want to learn a language
spoken in the rain forest
by only 10,000 people?
But we know that Jehovah
loves all sorts of people.
He wants even people who live
in isolated places,
like the rain forest, to know him.
I’ve fallen in love with the people,
the assignment, and the language.
It’s a beautiful language.
Even with all the sacrifices
we’ve made materially,
we’ve never lacked anything.
And I think that going
through the experience of living here
has strengthened our confidence in Jehovah.
It’s helped us to not rely
on our own strength.
We’ve really seen
how well Jehovah takes care of us.
That’s such a good point.
The love we show
is ultimately an extension of Jehovah’s love
for those with a spiritual need.
Thank you for your report, Brother Meilsmith.
And that concludes our travels
to visit our brothers
and sisters around the globe.
Do you remember the different examples
of brotherly and neighborly love
we’ve seen in the past hour?
We saw how our brothers and sisters in Africa
show love by helping each other to cope
with difficult economic circumstances.
When we visited Asia,
we saw the love
shown during times of natural disasters.
In Europe, preaching campaigns
were used to share the good news.
We saw examples from North America
of how personal interest
can reach a humble person’s heart.
And a lot of love and effort
was put into supporting
construction, renovation, and upkeep
of places of worship in Oceania.
And finally, in South America,
we joined our brothers and sisters
as they went out of their comfort zone
to preach
to indigenous and remote populations.
In the first talk of this convention,
the chairman promised that this symposium
would make you feel proud
to be a part
of our international brotherhood.
We’re confident
these examples had that effect.
Still, each one of us needs to ask himself:
‘Am I doing my part?
‘Do I show unfailing love
toward my brothers and my neighbors?’
This is what Jehovah requires of us.
Although our circumstances may differ,
when we do our utmost
to display love in daily life,
we prove that we are taught
by Jehovah, our Father,
whose “love never fails.”